Scratch
25:26: And after that came his brother out, and his hand took hold on Esau's heel; and his name was called Jacob: and Isaac was threescore years old when she bare them.
25:27: And the boys grew: and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the field; and Jacob was a plain man, dwelling in tents.
25:28: And Isaac loved Esau, because he did eat of his venison: but Rebekah loved Jacob.
25:29: And Jacob sod pottage: and Esau came from the field, and he was faint:
25:30: And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with that same red pottage; for I am faint: therefore was his name called Edom.
25:31: And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright.
25:33: And Jacob said, Swear to me this day; and he sware unto him: and he sold his birthright unto Jacob.
25:34: Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentiles; and he did eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way: thus Esau despised his birthright.
27:6: And Rebekah spake unto Jacob her son, saying, Behold, I heard thy father speak unto Esau thy brother, saying,
27:11: And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, Behold, Esau my brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man:
27:15: And Rebekah took goodly raiment of her eldest son Esau, which were with her in the house, and put them upon Jacob her younger son:
27:17: And she gave the savoury meat and the bread, which she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob.
27:19: And Jacob said unto his father, I am Esau thy firstborn; I have done according as thou badest me: arise, I pray thee, sit and eat of my venison, that thy soul may bless me.
27:21: And Isaac said unto Jacob, Come near, I pray thee, that I may feel thee, my son, whether thou be my very son Esau or not.
27:22: And Jacob went near unto Isaac his father; and he felt him, and said, The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau.
27:30: And it came to pass, as soon as Isaac had made an end of blessing Jacob, and Jacob was yet scarce gone out from the presence of Isaac his father, that Esau his brother came in from his hunting.
27:36: And he said, Is not he rightly named Jacob?  for he hath supplanted me these two times: he took away my birthright; and, behold, now he hath taken away my blessing.  And he said, Hast thou not reserved a blessing for me?
27:41: And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing wherewith his father blessed him: and Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning for my father are at hand; then will I slay my brother Jacob.
27:42: And these words of Esau her elder son were told to Rebekah: and she sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said unto him, Behold, thy brother Esau, as touching thee, doth comfort himself, purposing to kill thee.
27:46: And Rebekah said to Isaac, I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth: if Jacob take a wife of the daughters of Heth, such as these which are of the daughters of the land, what good shall my life do me?
28:1: And Isaac called Jacob, and blessed him, and charged him, and said unto him, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan.
28:5: And Isaac sent away Jacob: and he went to Padan-aram unto Laban, son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's mother.
28:6: When Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob, and sent him away to Padan-aram, to take him a wife from thence; and that as he blessed him he gave him a charge, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan;
28:7: And that Jacob obeyed his father and his mother, and was gone to Padan-aram;
28:10: And Jacob went out from Beer-sheba, and went toward Haran.
28:16: And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the LORD is in this place; and I knew it not.
28:18: And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that he had put for his pillows, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it.
28:20: And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me, and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat, and raiment to put on,
29:1: Then Jacob went on his journey, and came into the land of the people of the east.
29:4: And Jacob said unto them, My brethren, whence be ye?  And they said, Of Haran are we.
29:10: And it came to pass, when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban his mother's brother, and the sheep of Laban his mother's brother, that Jacob went near, and rolled the stone from the well's mouth, and watered the flock of Laban his mother's brother.
29:11: And Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice, and wept.
29:12: And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father's brother, and that he was Rebekah's son: and she ran and told her father.
29:13: And it came to pass, when Laban heard the tidings of Jacob his sister's son, that he ran to meet him, and embraced him, and kissed him, and brought him to his house.  And he told Laban all these things.
29:15: And Laban said unto Jacob, Because thou art my brother, shouldest thou therefore serve me for nought?  tell me, what shall thy wages be?
29:18: And Jacob loved Rachel; and said, I will serve thee seven years for Rachel thy younger daughter.
29:20: And Jacob served seven years for Rachel; and they seemed unto him but a few days, for the love he had to her.
29:21: And Jacob said unto Laban, Give me my wife, for my days are fulfilled, that I may go in unto her.
29:28: And Jacob did so, and fulfilled her week: and he gave him Rachel his daughter to wife also.
30:1: And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children, Rachel envied her sister; and said unto Jacob, Give me children, or else I die.
30:2: And Jacob's anger was kindled against Rachel: and he said, Am I in God's stead, who hath withheld from thee the fruit of the womb?
30:4: And she gave him Bilhah her handmaid to wife: and Jacob went in unto her.
30:5: And Bilhah conceived, and bare Jacob a son.
30:7: And Bilhah Rachel's maid conceived again, and bare Jacob a second son.
30:9: When Leah saw that she had left bearing, she took Zilpah her maid, and gave her Jacob to wife.
30:10: And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a son.
30:12: And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a second son.
30:16: And Jacob came out of the field in the evening, and Leah went out to meet him, and said, Thou must come in unto me; for surely I have hired thee with my son's mandrakes.  And he lay with her that night.
30:17: And God hearkened unto Leah, and she conceived, and bare Jacob the fifth son.
30:19: And Leah conceived again, and bare Jacob the sixth son.
30:25: And it came to pass, when Rachel had born Joseph, that Jacob said unto Laban, Send me away, that I may go unto mine own place, and to my country.
30:31: And he said, What shall I give thee?  And Jacob said, Thou shalt not give me any thing: if thou wilt do this thing for me, I will again feed and keep thy flock:
30:36: And he set three days' journey betwixt himself and Jacob: and Jacob fed the rest of Laban's flocks.
30:37: And Jacob took him rods of green poplar, and of the hazel and chesnut tree; and pilled white strakes in them, and made the white appear which was in the rods.
30:40: And Jacob did separate the lambs, and set the faces of the flocks toward the ringstraked, and all the brown in the flock of Laban; and he put his own flocks by themselves, and put them not unto Laban's cattle.
30:41: And it came to pass, whensoever the stronger cattle did conceive, that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the cattle in the gutters, that they might conceive among the rods.
30:42: But when the cattle were feeble, he put them not in: so the feebler were Laban's, and the stronger Jacob's.
31:1: And he heard the words of Laban's sons, saying, Jacob hath taken away all that was our father's; and of that which was our father's hath he gotten all this glory.
31:2: And Jacob beheld the countenance of Laban, and, behold, it was not toward him as before.
31:3: And the LORD said unto Jacob, Return unto the land of thy fathers, and to thy kindred; and I will be with thee.
31:4: And Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field unto his flock,
31:11: And the angel of God spake unto me in a dream, saying, Jacob: And I said, Here am I.
31:17: Then Jacob rose up, and set his sons and his wives upon camels;
31:20: And Jacob stole away unawares to Laban the Syrian, in that he told him not that he fled.
31:22: And it was told Laban on the third day that Jacob was fled.
31:24: And God came to Laban the Syrian in a dream by night, and said unto him, Take heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad.
31:25: Then Laban overtook Jacob.  Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the mount: and Laban with his brethren pitched in the mount of Gilead.
31:26: And Laban said to Jacob, What hast thou done, that thou hast stolen away unawares to me, and carried away my daughters, as captives taken with the sword?
31:29: It is in the power of my hand to do you hurt: but the God of your father spake unto me yesternight, saying, Take thou heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad.
31:31: And Jacob answered and said to Laban, Because I was afraid: for I said, Peradventure thou wouldest take by force thy daughters from me.
31:32: With whomsoever thou findest thy gods, let him not live: before our brethren discern thou what is thine with me, and take it to thee.  For Jacob knew not that Rachel had stolen them.
31:33: And Laban went into Jacob's tent, and into Leah's tent, and into the two maidservants' tents; but he found them not.  Then went he out of Leah's tent, and entered into Rachel's tent.
31:36: And Jacob was wroth, and chode with Laban: and Jacob answered and said to Laban, What is my trespass?  what is my sin, that thou hast so hotly pursued after me?
31:43: And Laban answered and said unto Jacob, These daughters are my daughters, and these children are my children, and these cattle are my cattle, and all that thou seest is mine: and what can I do this day unto these my daughters, or unto their children which they have born?
31:45: And Jacob took a stone, and set it up for a pillar.
31:46: And Jacob said unto his brethren, Gather stones; and they took stones, and made an heap: and they did eat there upon the heap.
31:47: And Laban called it Jegar-sahadutha: but Jacob called it Galeed.
31:51: And Laban said to Jacob, Behold this heap, and behold this pillar, which I have cast betwixt me and thee;
31:53: The God of Abraham, and the God of Nahor, the God of their father, judge betwixt us.  And Jacob sware by the fear of his father Isaac.
31:54: Then Jacob offered sacrifice upon the mount, and called his brethren to eat bread: and they did eat bread, and tarried all night in the mount.
32:1: And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him.
32:2: And when Jacob saw them, he said, This is God's host: and he called the name of that place Mahanaim.
32:3: And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother unto the land of Seir, the country of Edom.
32:4: And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye speak unto my lord Esau; Thy servant Jacob saith thus, I have sojourned with Laban, and stayed there until now:
32:6: And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to thy brother Esau, and also he cometh to meet thee, and four hundred men with him.
32:7: Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed: and he divided the people that was with him, and the flocks, and herds, and the camels, into two bands;
32:9: And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac, the LORD which saidst unto me, Return unto thy country, and to thy kindred, and I will deal well with thee:
32:18: Then thou shalt say, They be thy servant Jacob's; it is a present sent unto my lord Esau: and, behold, also he is behind us.
32:20: And say ye moreover, Behold, thy servant Jacob is behind us.  For he said, I will appease him with the present that goeth before me, and afterward I will see his face; peradventure he will accept of me.
32:24: And Jacob was left alone; and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day.
32:25: And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh; and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was out of joint, as he wrestled with him.
32:27: And he said unto him, What is thy name?  And he said, Jacob.
32:28: And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel: for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed.
32:29: And Jacob asked him, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name.  And he said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name?  And he blessed him there.
32:30: And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved.
32:32: Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the sinew which shrank, which is upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this day: because he touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh in the sinew that shrank.
33:1: And Jacob lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, Esau came, and with him four hundred men.  And he divided the children unto Leah, and unto Rachel, and unto the two handmaids.
33:10: And Jacob said, Nay, I pray thee, if now I have found grace in thy sight, then receive my present at my hand: for therefore I have seen thy face, as though I had seen the face of God, and thou wast pleased with me.
33:17: And Jacob journeyed to Succoth, and built him an house, and made booths for his cattle: therefore the name of the place is called Succoth.
33:18: And Jacob came to Shalem, a city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he came from Padan-aram; and pitched his tent before the city.
34:1: And Dinah the daughter of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the land.
34:3: And his soul clave unto Dinah the daughter of Jacob, and he loved the damsel, and spake kindly unto the damsel.
34:5: And Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter: now his sons were with his cattle in the field: and Jacob held his peace until they were come.
34:6: And Hamor the father of Shechem went out unto Jacob to commune with him.
34:7: And the sons of Jacob came out of the field when they heard it: and the men were grieved, and they were very wroth, because he had wrought folly in Israel in lying with Jacob's daughter; which thing ought not to be done.
34:13: And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father deceitfully, and said, because he had defiled Dinah their sister:
34:19: And the young man deferred not to do the thing, because he had delight in Jacob's daughter: and he was more honourable than all the house of his father.
34:25: And it came to pass on the third day, when they were sore, that two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brethren, took each man his sword, and came upon the city boldly, and slew all the males.
34:27: The sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and spoiled the city, because they had defiled their sister.
34:30: And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, Ye have troubled me to make me to stink among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites and the Perizzites: and I being few in number, they shall gather themselves together against me, and slay me; and I shall be destroyed, I and my house.
35:1: And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there: and make there an altar unto God, that appeared unto thee when thou fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother.
35:2: Then Jacob said unto his household, and to all that were with him, Put away the strange gods that are among you, and be clean, and change your garments:
35:4: And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which were in their hand, and all their earrings which were in their ears; and Jacob hid them under the oak which was by Shechem.
35:5: And they journeyed: and the terror of God was upon the cities that were round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons of Jacob.
35:6: So Jacob came to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, that is, Bethel, he and all the people that were with him.
35:9: And God appeared unto Jacob again, when he came out of Padan-aram, and blessed him.
35:10: And God said unto him, Thy name is Jacob: thy name shall not be called any more Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name: and he called his name Israel.
35:14: And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he talked with him, even a pillar of stone: and he poured a drink offering thereon, and he poured oil thereon.
35:15: And Jacob called the name of the place where God spake with him, Bethel.
35:20: And Jacob set a pillar upon her grave: that is the pillar of Rachel's grave unto this day.
35:22: And it came to pass, when Israel dwelt in that land, that Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine: and Israel heard it.  Now the sons of Jacob were twelve:
35:23: The sons of Leah; Reuben, Jacob's firstborn, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Zebulun:
35:26: And the sons of Zilpah, Leah's handmaid; Gad, and Asher: these are the sons of Jacob, which were born to him in Padan-aram.
35:27: And Jacob came unto Isaac his father unto Mamre, unto the city of Arbah, which is Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac sojourned.
35:29: And Isaac gave up the ghost, and died, and was gathered unto his people, being old and full of days: and his sons Esau and Jacob buried him.
36:6: And Esau took his wives, and his sons, and his daughters, and all the persons of his house, and his cattle, and all his beasts, and all his substance, which he had got in the land of Canaan; and went into the country from the face of his brother Jacob.
37:1: And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, in the land of Canaan.
37:2: These are the generations of Jacob.  Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brethren; and the lad was with the sons of Bilhah, and with the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives: and Joseph brought unto his father their evil report.
37:34: And Jacob rent his clothes, and put sackcloth upon his loins, and mourned for his son many days.
42:1: Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said unto his sons, Why do ye look one upon another?
42:4: But Benjamin, Joseph's brother, Jacob sent not with his brethren; for he said, Lest peradventure mischief befall him.
42:29: And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of Canaan, and told him all that befell unto them; saying,
42:36: And Jacob their father said unto them, Me have ye bereaved of my children: Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and ye will take Benjamin away: all these things are against me.
45:25: And they went up out of Egypt, and came into the land of Canaan unto Jacob their father,
45:26: And told him, saying, Joseph is yet alive, and he is governor over all the land of Egypt.  And Jacob's heart fainted, for he believed them not.
45:27: And they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said unto them: and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob their father revived:
46:2: And God spake unto Israel in the visions of the night, and said, Jacob, Jacob.  And he said, Here am I.
46:5: And Jacob rose up from Beer-sheba: and the sons of Israel carried Jacob their father, and their little ones, and their wives, in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him.
46:6: And they took their cattle, and their goods, which they had gotten in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob, and all his seed with him:
46:8: And these are the names of the children of Israel, which came into Egypt, Jacob and his sons: Reuben, Jacob's firstborn.
46:15: These be the sons of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob in Padan-aram, with his daughter Dinah: all the souls of his sons and his daughters were thirty and three.
46:18: These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter, and these she bare unto Jacob, even sixteen souls.
46:19: The sons of Rachel Jacob's wife; Joseph, and Benjamin.
46:22: These are the sons of Rachel, which were born to Jacob: all the souls were fourteen.
46:25: These are the sons of Bilhah, which Laban gave unto Rachel his daughter, and she bare these unto Jacob: all the souls were seven.
46:26: All the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt, which came out of his loins, besides Jacob's sons' wives, all the souls were threescore and six;
46:27: And the sons of Joseph, which were born him in Egypt, were two souls: all the souls of the house of Jacob, which came into Egypt, were threescore and ten.
47:7: And Joseph brought in Jacob his father, and set him before Pharaoh: and Jacob blessed Pharaoh.
47:8: And Pharaoh said unto Jacob, How old art thou?
47:9: And Jacob said unto Pharaoh, The days of the years of my pilgrimage are an hundred and thirty years: few and evil have the days of the years of my life been, and have not attained unto the days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their pilgrimage.
47:10: And Jacob blessed Pharaoh, and went out from before Pharaoh.
47:28: And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years: so the whole age of Jacob was an hundred forty and seven years.
48:2: And one told Jacob, and said, Behold, thy son Joseph cometh unto thee: and Israel strengthened himself, and sat upon the bed.
48:3: And Jacob said unto Joseph, God Almighty appeared unto me at Luz in the land of Canaan, and blessed me,
49:1: And Jacob called unto his sons, and said, Gather yourselves together, that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the last days.
49:2: Gather yourselves together, and hear, ye sons of Jacob; and hearken unto Israel your father.
49:7: Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it was cruel: I will divide them in Jacob, and scatter them in Israel.
49:24: But his bow abode in strength, and the arms of his hands were made strong by the hands of the mighty God of Jacob; (from thence is the shepherd, the stone of Israel:)
49:33: And when Jacob had made an end of commanding his sons, he gathered up his feet into the bed, and yielded up the ghost, and was gathered unto his people.
50:24: And Joseph said unto his brethren, I die: and God will surely visit you, and bring you out of this land unto the land which he sware to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
